(DRAFT for new version of format of conversion file)

Conversion between file formats is possible, and can be specified by the
file called "/.special/conversion". Clients MUST NOT try to download this
file unless the user explicitly commands the computer to do so; it is not
supposed to do so merely by finding a file that is not known how to handle.
(Client software also MUST allow the user to override them, and to remove
any such files that have already been downloaded.)

Furthermore, any client that is able to understand it MUST NOT require that
it comes from the same server as the file; it can also be a local file
which has been written by the end user, a file from another server (or the
same server but a different path) etc, and once a conversion has been
enabled by the user then the same conversion might be used with other
servers too if appropriate (not all kinds of conversions are appropriate
for using with other servers (e.g. if file name rewriting is used then it
is not appropriate for arbitrary servers), but some can). If it does use
it with other servers, the user MUST be able to configure this feature,
e.g. so that it does not work with other servers.

Clients might also have their own mechanisms for conversion beyond what are
written here, e.g. allowing to use local programs with pipes (which is a
recommended way of doing so); such ways can only be used if set up by the
end user or the system administrator and cannot be specified by servers.
(This is possible even if the rest of the specification in this section of
this document is not implemented.)

It is a DER file with a sequence of records, where each record is a
sequence with two fields, being the Match field and then the Effect field.
Each of these two fields is a implicit typed sequence, with the type number
specifying which kind of match or effect to use.

In addition, where a uxn program is expected, it may be either a Visible
string (which is the URL of the program) or a Octet string (which is the
uxn program itself).

Match types are:

* 0 = Contains one Visible string being the ULFI type to match. The ULFI
type may be partial, and should normally be a single piece.

* 1 = Contains two Visible strings, the first being a URL prefix and the
second being a URL suffix. The prefix must start with a forward slash if
it does not begin with the scheme. The suffix excludes any query string
and fragment name that may be present in the original URL. If the scheme
is included, it must include the entire scheme including the colon.

* 2 = Used for interactive mode. Contains one Visible string, being the
capability string to match.

* 3 = Like type 1 but used for interactive mode instead of normal files.

Effect types are:

* 0 = File name rewriting. Contains two Visible strings, the first being
the suffix to match and the second being the suffix to replace it with.

* 1 = Contains two Visible strings; the first being the URL for a document
which describes the file format, and the second being the ULFI type of the
documentation file (plain text or Scorpion format is preferred).

* 2 = Use a uxn program to convert the file into another format. The first
field is a Visible string being the target ULFI type. The second field is
the uxn program. The third field is a bit string which specifies how the
uxn program operates; see below.

* 3 = Use a uxn program to display the file in GUI mode. The only field is
the uxn program.

* 4 = Use interactive mode, with the same URL. The only field is a Visible
string being the recommended capability string, and it is optional.

* 5 = Contains a Visible string, which is a full URL (either absolute, or
beginning with a forward slash), which must end with a query string. The
original full absolute URL is percent-encoded and appended to this one, to
make the URL to use instead.

* 6 = Combines types 4 and 5. The first field is the URL as in type 5, and
the second (optional) field is the capability string.

* 7 = Use a uxn program to display a front-end GUI for a interactive mode
connection (type I request). The only field is the uxn program; the
standard I/O of the uxn program is connected to the interactive session of
the server, and EOF is received if the server disconnects. Standard error
is not connected to the server (implementations should display anything
written to stderr in an independent window, but this is not required).

(Not all combinations of match types with effect types are meaningful.)

The bit string for how the uxn program operates is a bit field with the
following bits available (an implementation might not support all of these
combinations; if it sees any bits set which are not understood or are not
mentioned below, then it will ignore the entire record that contains it):

* Clear for stdin/stdout, or set if the first file device is the input file
(which is read only) and the second file device is the output file.

* Set if the input file is seekable and can be closed and reopened (this
requires some features of uxn38, although the implementation does not have
to be uxn38 and can be any implementation supporting these features).

* Set if the output file is seekable and can be closed and reopened, and
can also be read as well as written. (This may also require some of the
features of uxn38.)

* Set if the first (and only) command-line argument is the desired picture
size, with two numbers with "x" in between, e.g. "640x480". This is only
valid if the output format is a picture format. The actual picture size may
be different from the desired picture size.

Note that it is OK if there are multiple records which match the same file.
In this case, the first one that matches and that has an effect that can be
used is normally preferred, although any matching record may be used, even
if the first one is usable, a different one may be used instead anyways.

Recommended output formats for pictures are farbfeld (true colours) and
XPM2 (indexed colours, which also allows specifying symbolic colours which
can be specified by user preferences). In the XPM2 format, you should not
use X11 colour names; only hex, "black", "white", "None", and symbolic
names (with the "s" colour type) should be used (although monochrome and
grey scales are usable too, in addition to full colours and symbolic).

Note that farbfeld should not be used for disk storage nor for transfer; it
should only be used as the output format of a conversion program that runs
on the client side, and the output should be read as it is being made,
rather than being saved to disk.

Implementations should ignore any records it does not understand or cannot
use, except possibly to display them if you want to display all records
including those which are not usable.

