(DRAFT specification of Computer Payment File)

The file is DER format and is a sequence with fields:

* Set of seller identifiers. Each one is either a OID or a sequence with
the format of the issuer/subject name in a X.509 certificate (except that
you can use any string types; it is suggested to use Graphic string or
General string instead of Teletex, and to use Printable instead of IA5
for domain names, Visible instead of IA5 for email addresses). There
should not be any duplicates, and it cannot be empty.

* Set of buyer identifiers, like the above but it is allowed to be empty.

* Possibly encrypted main section. If it is encrypted, then it is a octet
string; if it is not encrypted, then it is a sequence.

* The buyer's signature algorithm. This may be null if it is not signed.

* The buyer's signature, which is a octet string. This is the signature
of the main section, or omitted if it is not signed.

The main section is a sequence with fields:

* The date/time of the order, which is a Generalized time. This should
be used to interpret the contents of the order division in case the schema
for the ordering has been changed since that time.

* The order division, which can be any type, and has a schema which is
defined by the seller. (The seller should publish a document which explains
the expected format of the order division.)

* The payment division; see below.

The payment division is a sequence with fields:

* OID which identifies the payment method.

* Set of payment processor identifiers, which is like the set of seller
and buyer identifiers; it may be empty.

* The date/time of the payment, which is a Generalized time. This should
be interpreted like the date field in a cheque.

* The currency code, which is a Printable string with three characters;
this must be one of the ISO 4217 alphabetic or numeric codes. If the
payment is using "points" specific to the seller, then this is null
instead of a Printable string, or it can be some nonstandard type if
there are parentheses around it (and then the number of characters can
be any number; this nonstandard type may depend on the payment method).

* Integer with the amount of money to be paid; this is divided by ten
to the power of the number of digits after the decimal separator as
specified by ISO 4217 in order to decide the fractional amount according
to that country's currency. This MUST match the amount which is implied by
the order division, otherwise it is an error.

* Payment information, which is one item of any type, which is defined
according to the payment method. This might include encrypted parts, and
it is recommended that it does so, so that only the payment processor is
able to decrypt it (the seller cannot decrypt it).

* Something to avoid replay attacks (TODO). Possibly, also to avoid other
kind of attacks, if necessary.

To use this format, the procedure should be:

1. Buyer receives any necessary documents from the seller, which will
describe the format of the order division any OIDs, what payment methods
and currencies are accepted, etc.

2. Buyer decides what to order, and makes the order division, and
determines the total price.

3. Buyer makes the payment division and rest of the payment file, and
sends the completed file to the seller (and should also keep a copy).

4. Seller verifies the contents of the file that has been received,
after decrypting the main section if appropriate. This includes checking
that the amount of money in the payment division matches that implied by
the order division; if it does not match, the order is rejected.

5. Seller sends the contents of the payment division to the payment
processor, together with any additional data which is required. If
the seller is handling payment themself (e.g. using store credit, or
prepaid), then this step is skipped.

6. Seller receives the response from the payment processor (if necessary;
this step is skipped if step 5 above is skipped).

7. Seller sends a receipt to the buyer, and uses the order details to
send whatever they ordered as well.

(Note that there are a few things which I deliberately intend to avoid
including, due to being opposed to such things.)

I probably missed some things in this document; please tell me if so.


=== Catalog file ===

If a catalog file is available, then the format of the order division in
the payment file is defined according to the catalog file. A customer who
has the catalog file can use it to decide what to order and what parameters
are needed, and to calculate the total price from the information that it
contains and make up the order division in the correct format.

Anywhere in the catalog file that a General string is allowed, a
translation list of General strings is also allowed, and anywhere that
a Graphic string is allowed, a translation list of Graphic strings is
also allowed.

The catalog file must be hashed with a proof of work, which is included
in the catalog file. One purpose of this (as well as several other features
of the catalog file and payment file) is as one of the mitigations against
some kind of dishonesty (such as surveillance pricing). The catalog file
also should be cryptographically signed, and the hash of the file also must
be used to identify the version of the catalog file being used (to avoid
the possibility of the catalog being unexpectedly changed when placing an
order, so that the order will specify the version of the catalog needed).

(TODO: actually make the format description)

